Enterprise Java Spring 2021: TEAM JOURNAL RECORDS

Team Name: ReSt Devs
Team Members: Rob Adams, Sydney St. Clair, Tosan Ogedengbe
Team Project: Vocation By Location


JOURNAL ENTRY #1 - March 30, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Sydney, Tosan.

This is a journal entry that covers the team meeting activities from 3/30/2021. 

1. Went through the team agenda provided by Rob in Slack.

2. The main goal was to discuss and work on how to complete the feedback points left by the instructor. 

3. Selected a team records keeper.
	- Tosan volunteered for this role.

4. Discussed updating the team ReadMe to meet Paula's feedback.
	- The ReadMe was updated by Tosan at 10:02 pm on 3/30.
	- Rob would check to see if this was done before reaching back out to Paula. 

5. Discussed shaving down the project plan and removing all references to MVC that were in there.
	- Rob stated he would cover this.
	- He would let Paula know once these changes were completed. 

6. Established a new meeting time: Mondays at 5:30 pm.

7. Rob let us all know that the materials from Week 8 and 9 were essential to getting this project done.

8. Discussion points for item #3 were held off on. 
	These were the inner workings of the project: POJOs, Endpoints, Query Parameters, etc. 
	We would wait until all team members had completed and read all materials from Weeks 8 & 9.

9. Rob made some suggestions on where we go next:
	Once we all complete Week 9 we should all see how we would tackle this problem.
	Then we can compare all the ideas that we have and see what we come up with.

10. Sydney stepped into some the tasks:
	Will look into ROBOPOJO.
	Will see what kind of Classes she can create to sort out the data we have.
	Create the POJOs needed for the project. 

11. Team discussed the proposed project flow to make sure we were all on the same page.

12. *Meeting Ends*



JOURNAL ENTRY #2 - April 5, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Sydney, Tosan.

This is a journal entry that covers the team meeting activities from 4/5/2021. 

1. The team decided prior in a Slack message that we would collaborate on each other's VM and other technical issues to get these out of the way.
	This was agreed to, and we started work with Sydney's VM to see what issues she had. 

2. We noted at the start of the meeting that Sydney was having problems pushing her latest work (all the POJOs) to our repository in git. 
	Through discussion, we were able to fix that and found it was just the use of an errant command. 
	She was able to push her material up to the repository and they were all in great shape. 

3. We worked on some issues in the pom.xml file to see why we had problems with some of the imported packages not being recognized.
	The concern was that we had some missing dependencies, and if we could find and add them the imports would work.
	We found these and the needed properties and added them into the pom.xml file - no changes. 
	Rob tested this in his VM, and the issue remained. Sydney noted that we were getting some errors messages associated with the artifact id.
	We fixed this by removing the space in the team’s name (Rest Devs) that was in the artifact id section in the pom. 
		- All that mess was because of that space. 
		- BECAUSE OF ONE SINGLE. SOLITARY. LOUSY. #$%^&@**. SPACE...!!!!

4. Planned to meet again later this week to see how things are coming together.
	Agreed upon time: Thursday April 8, 2021 at 5:30 pm.

5. Discussed the next steps for the project that we needed in place by April 8th.
	a. Need some unit tests created and added to the project - assigned to Tosan.
	b. Created the Rest Service that will use the POJOs - assigned to Rob.
	c. Get an HTML page set up for the service. A basic index.html file where we can indicate what we offer - assigned to Sydney.
	d. Create and assemble all the documentation for the project - assigned to Tosan.

6. Discussed the time frame, due date and where we are in the project.
	We felt that we were in a good place and will be just fine if we are all able to complete our assignments by the 8th. 

7. We discussed a few more tail end issues to make sure we were all on the same page.
	a. We discussed the Week 10 work.
	b. Discussed that branching is going to be key and it was decided that no team would make changes on the main branch.
	c. We would all use our own branches to add and pull materials from the project repository.

8. Question and Answer round brought about some final questions about the test classes and what these would need to be testing. 
	We had a lot of classes and needed to be sure we were testing the right ones.
	Verified where the file would go.
	Verified what it would look like as we would not have a traditional DAO for this project. 

9. Meeting closed with the next one set to take place April 8th at 5:30 pm. 

10. *Meeting Ends*


JOURNAL ENTRY #3 - April 6, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Tosan.

This is a journal entry that covers the class activities from a Break Out Room on 4/6/2021. 
While not a designated meeting time for the team, breakout rooms were provided so we took advantage of that. 

1. The team project was discussed at length again to help Tosan get a real grasp on what was being created.

2. Tosan asked for some additional clarification on how the project would work as this was not a traditional application.
	Reasons for this were because some assumptions had been made on his part on what the project would be.
	In reality, there was no database, and no "site" where a user would go to consume this service.
	It was a bit abstract, so Rob took the time to define and clear things up. 

3. Unit test work that Tosan had created was discussed.
	The code for the test class was done and provided to Rob to look at through Slack as notepad files.
	Rob looked it over and saw that what we needed was there and the code stubs looked good. 
	The URI that will be used for the testing (where we are getting our data from) was talked about and provided so that it could be added to the test class code. 
	The test class code will be completed and pushed to repository before the next meeting. 

4. Documentation for the project was discussed next.
	Tosan had studied many examples of API documentation and saw that they all had a few things in common.
	The attempt for our documentation would be to break down the project information into easy to digest "chapters".
	Chapters were discussed and it was finalized that we would use the following ones:
		i. Welcome - A home landing page with an introduction to the service and the docunetation itself. 
		ii. Overview - A place to describe what we are doing and why.
		iii. User Guide - A place to explain what you need to use the service and what you will get back.
		iv. Examples - A place to show what a successful request looks like and explain all that is received.
		v. Resources - A place to give credit to the source we get our data from and provide to our users. 
	We had discussed a possible "Tutorial" section where we could explain using screenshots how to use the service.
	 	- It was determined that something like this was not needed for the intended user base of the service. 

5. Tosan figured that we could use his "ignorance" of how this project is really going to work to get details of the project.
		- In essence, Tosan would "interview" Rob to get a clear idea of all the project entailed.
	We did this: And Tosan was able to ask Rob questions as though he was a first time user (and not a developer) of the service. 
	We delved into what the project was, why it exists, who it was developed for, etc. 
	Notes were taken, and the answers recorded. 
	Tosan would use these answers to form the root of the documentation.

6. *Break Out Room Session Ends* 
	With the next Team Meeting still scheduled to take place April 8th at 5:30 pm.


JOURNAL ENTRY #4 - April 8, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Sydney, Tosan.

This is a journal entry that covers the team meeting activities from 4/8/2021. 

1. Some project work had been done and discussed through Slack prior to the meeting. 
	Comments and notes were shared to resolve a few issues and continue with the troubleshooting.
	Rob was able to get the REST service working. He indicated that he did have some bugs that were painful to correct, but these things were overcome. 

2. Some changes were discussed and could be added:
	a. We would like to give users the ability to order the data they get back by specific parameters....
		for example: returning industries by average wage low-to-high, and stuff like this.
		He was able to set that up in Java, and this was discussed. 
	b. We felt it would be possible to allow users to filter results.....
		for example: only getting data if certain criteria are met, such as populations over a certain number, or industries over a certain average wage. 
	c. This is definitely possible, but could be time-consuming. 
	d. Should the team agree, we would add that to the project. 
		The team discussed it and agreed to add this in.	
		Rob wanted to try to incorporate this into the code.

3. There were some issues with the tests. 
	The target URL provided for industries and place were incorrect. 
		Tosan updated the code with these changes.
	The classes we were targeting for testing were also incorrect. 
		Tosan updated the code with these changes. 

4. Documentation was reviewed. 
	Some changes needed to be made.
	The files were placed in the project webapp folder. 
	The main page was renamed to index.html.
	There was some incorrect information in the User Guide section of the documentation.
		Examples were provided in the meeting to clear things up.
	Tosan made all of the requested changes to the documentation files. 
		We will look into making additional corrections as a team on Monday.
		There is the option to update this all week up until that final meeting.


5. The POJOS seemed to need a little updating.
	The names of a few of the POJOs were a little confusing. 
		a. Place and Industry don't represent a single place and a single industry, but rather collections of all the data from their sources.
		b. We looked into refactoring those into something more descriptive.
	Sydeny made these updates top the POJO code. 

6. At the meeting, discussed the potential confusion for the Industry and Place variables. 

7. Demo: Rob ran a live demo of the service for us to see it working beforehand.
	- Saw the project in action.
	- Went to a web page.
	- Typed in our url [Rest_devs/war/api/industries].
	- A get request was sent and we got back an array of JSON objects with industry names and ids.
	- He used the objects to get the industry id and added this to the next query string to get a place for that industry. 
	- He typed in a new request for place using the industry id as a parameter in that request [Rest_devs/war/api/places?(industry id)].
	- He got back another array of JSON objects with places, populations and wages included. 

8. Went over the user guide process for complete team understanding and to note down the user process for documentation.
	The results were: 
	1. Go to a tool like SOAP.
	2. Put in the industry request [Rest_devs/war/api/industries].
	3. Get back the JSON objects for the industries.
	4. Locate the industry id from the result.
	5. Put in the place request [Rest_devs/war/api/places?(industry id)].	 
	6. Get back the JSON objects for the places that have a tie to that industry.

9. It was noted that there were constants in the code to limit the search results.	
	They were set up for population and for total records to be brought back.	
	Discussions were had about all these to be made into parameters to allow more user control over the result set. 
	Rob indicated he would like to try to add this if there was time before project deadline. 
		Looking to make population and record count parameters to allow for more user control of the results. 
		He would also look to see if he could set it up so that results could be filtered and sorted:
			Alphabetically by state, 
			And by population (low to high, or vice versa)

10. The AWS EC2 instance needed for this project was discussed.
	Sydney stepped in to create that for the project.

11. *Meeting Ends*

	
JOURNAL ENTRY #5 - April 9 thru April 11, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Sydney, Tosan through Slack.

1. With communication through Slack some other items were discussed.
	Rob had completed the adjustments he wanted to try to add to the project.
	Sydney had completed breaking the POJO classes down to more reradable easier to understand methods.
	The original Test Classes were adjusted and taken care of.
	The correct urls were added and the tests passed. 

2. New Test Classes were suggested to test the method we use to get data back for the users. 
	Tosan was assigned the task to now create tests for the data we would be getting back.
	Reached out to Rob for further discussion on what to test for, and what these tests needed.
		Was discussed in a 1 hour Google meeting between the two of them on the afternoon of 4/11.

3. Tosan was having problems deploying the webpage that contained our service locally in his VM.
	Rob assisted on this and help troubleshoot during the meeting.
	It was discivered that Tosan's configuration was missing some few items:
		i. The url that was needed for the index.html page for the project to get pulled up was incorrect.
		ii. There was no 'Build Artifact Maven Goal' to build the ReSTDevs:war artifcat in the configuration.
		iii. The Deployment needed to reference the RestDevs:war and build this at deployment.
	Troubleshooting between the two of them was successful and Tosan was able to deploy the proper web pages locally. 

4. The documentation would be changed to relfect all that the site would be for the users. 
	Tosan would go through and edit all of the pages so that they stated the proper things as to how the service worked. 
		Made appropriate changes to some of the language.
		Utilized the service and collected some JSON results to add as examopes into the documentation. 
	A Slack message would go out to the rest of the team once this was completed.
		Any additional proofreading and editing for the documentation would be looked at and handled on Monday. 


JOURNAL ENTRY #6 - April 12, 2021
Attendees: Rob, Sydney, Tosan.

1. Started meeting wit a discussion about sorting the data for users.
	It was decided that users can do this themselves, as they may have a desired method for this.
	Filtering would remain in place.

2. There were some issues with the EC2 instance in AWS.
	Sydney was able to solve these.
	This was due to some missed steps in the setup process.

3. The documentation was looked at, and would go through final review.

4. Presenation disucssion was handled.
	We utilized an outline for who would handle what parts of the presentation.
	Time limits were discussed to make sure the presenation does not go over the allotted time.
	Small scripts would be created by each team member to cover the parts they would discuss. 
	Rob would be the 'main' presenter and share the screen for the class to see. 
	We would send him our scripts so he would have an idea of how to share the project while we go through our talking points. 
		Problem we're solving: Rob ~ 3 minutes
		Demonstration of Service: Rob ~ 2-3 minutes
		User Docs: Tosan ~ 3 minutes
		Code Walkthrough:
			-POJOs: Sydney ~ 2 minutes
			-REST (getting and outputting the data): Rob ~ 2 minutes
			-REST (sorting and filtering): Sydney ~ 2 minutes
			-Tests: Tosan ~ 2 minutes
		Challenges and Key Learning Points ~ 3 minutes
			- Each team member would select top 2 or 3 learning points and challenges to share.

5. The project Plan was looked at and we verified that we hit all the items on it.

6. Project Deployment:
	The project url was officially deployed in AWS to verify that it does indeed work.
	There were some issues when this first occurred.
		Troubleshooting began to find out what could be the problem.
		Through checking the pom.xml and the AWS instance, we were able to get the service up and running.

7. *Meeting Ends*



